>> Kyle: Okay, our next discussion point
in the overall discussion about list
operations, is I wanted to take you back
to something I said at the beginning of
this part of our discussion.
Which was that really these are actually
operations that are generalized
any data structure, not just the
operations that would only work on arrays.
So I wanna give you an example of that.
This is a map object utility,
which does the same thing as map for
a list would do, but it does it across
the list of enumerable keys in an object.
Some important things to point out, I
create a brand new object on line 2 called
newObj, and then on line 3 I get
the list of enumerable properties and
a list of enumerable keys for that object,
with the object.keys utility.
Line 4, I loop over those keys and
I'm using the four of loop.
Don't miss that detail.
So that I actually am looking at the keys
rather than the indexes of the keys array.
And then, I set the value and
the new object at that
same property location,
equal to the mapped transformed value of
the original object at that location.
That's should look exactly familiar.
The same concept is what
we did with the array.
It's just slightly different,
so that it's been adapted to work against
an object instead of against an array.
>> Kyle: Moreover, any data
structure that you could think of,
you could implement these same fundamental
ideas of map, filter and reduce, for
any data structure you provide.
And moreover not only can you, I'm gonna
strongly implore you that you should.
Any data structure that is custom that
you've built that isn't an array,
that you're tracking data,
your data model come up with some
kind of adapter that adapts the concepts
of map, filter and reduce to it.
Because that will make
working with that object and
doing operations against it,
not just easier, but more functional.
I think one of the key
underlying concepts here,
is that functional programmers
do work with data structures.
They do work with types, and
the way they do it is to adapt functional
concepts to those data structures.
And map object here is an example
of adapting functional programming,
to a key value hash.
You can see how it's used down there
at the bottom, I call map obj.
I pass in my mapper function, and my O and
I get back a new object where each
of those values was uppercased.
>> Kyle: To get you some
practice with thinking this way,
abstracting your list operations
thought process to data structures,
and here's a hint, to thinking about
your own code as a data structure.
That is,
if I have a list of operations in my code,
I could turn that list of
operations into a list operation.
statements into a list operation.
That kind of thing actually happens a lot
more often than I initially realized, and
it's really where I think
functional programming and
list operations start to shine,
is when our program itself
becomes a data structure that
we can model these ideas across.
And actually, we've already seen
a couple of examples of doing that.
Do you remember when a little while
ago in the fusion discussion,
I said well what if I have a composed
write and I can only do two of them?
Well, you could have
done that imperatively.
You could have called compose right
with the first two of them, and
then called compose right again
with that one plus another one.
You could have done that manually.
But what did I do?
Instead of doing two separate
statements like that and
storing the intermediary result,
what did I do?
I modeled those statements as
a list operation themselves.
By putting the functions into an array and
reducing across the array.
And that allowed me to make those
statements as a list operation,
instead of individual statements.
In a sense, I treated that part of
my program as a data structure,
to operate against.
That is where functional programming for
me is really starting to get more
fascinating, it's really
starting to shine.